Practical 6 : Create and manage users in Jenkins
Procedure:
Open Google and search for Java Corretto 21 download.

Download the Windows (MSI) installer file.

Open the downloaded file and proceed with the installation by clicking Next → Next → Finish.

After installation, navigate to Environment Variables and verify whether the JAVA_HOME path has been created under System Variables.

If the path exists, it confirms that Java Corretto has been installed successfully, and you can proceed with the practical.

Next, return to Google and search for Jenkins download.

Scroll down and download Jenkins 2.541.1 LTS.

After downloading, open Command Prompt (CMD) and verify the Java installation by executing the following commands:

java -version

javac

Move the downloaded Jenkins WAR file to the D drive and open Command Prompt in that location.

In the Command Prompt on the D drive, run the following command:

java -jar jenkins.war

Do not close this Command Prompt window until the practical session is completed.

Copy the highlighted file path displayed in the Command Prompt.

Open that file using Notepad and copy the one-time administrator password provided inside it.

Open Google Chrome and enter the following URL in the address bar:

http://localhost:8080

Paste the copied administrator password and click Continue.

Select Install Suggested Plugins.

Create a user account using your name and click Save and Continue.

Click Save and Finish, then select Start using Jenkins.

On the Jenkins dashboard, click New Item → select Freestyle Project → enter the project name as DemoProject.

Click on the Settings icon, then navigate to Users.

Select Create Users and create two user accounts.

Ensure that you remember the passwords for both users.

After creating the users, return to the Settings dashboard.

Go to Security → Authorization and select Matrix-based Security.

Click Add and include the two users that were created earlier.

Assign multiple permissions to User 1, while granting only Read/View permissions to User 2.

Sign out from the current account and log in using the two newly created user accounts to verify the permissions.

Output:

User 1 will be able to view the DemoProject and perform CRUD operations on it.
User 2 will only have permission to view the project without making any modifications.
